[Music]
[Applause]
I will share and so talking about chef
editing every guys ever used Google Docs
before yeah so if you try to use the PO
box without any plugins no so this is
what happens when any plugins on a fly
he's trying to connect and you cannot
edit the documents while he's trying to
connect with planes there's a plugin
that you can use for that but
spreadsheets for assistance in support
of one at all so this is makes me sad I
don't know what you and also makes me a
bit worried that Google is has access to
at least the method
you're right so it has to synchronize
between years what the changes are and
so for that they have to know something
about your document if not the document
at all so is that all about relative to
to this so let's just press some some
goals first so I want to have a net word
I want for so much to enable
decentralized collaboration between two
or more tiers for editing any type of
data like a document or a set a Mac and
in this network I didn't want it to be
no note should be special
so although notes should be only users
so if I'm collaborating with the user I
just want to note in network and no one
has special privileges so I want in real
soft real-time update so if you make a
change I eventually get it if I make a
change we eventually get it and really
important this I want the stage to
convert eventually converge so I want as
if two people are collaborating I want
to see if we stop collaborating and we
connect each other or three people are
collaborating and they all eventually
connect to each other
I want them to end up on the same same
right so cities are a heart problem
that's why Google has a centralized
service to handle the synchronization
between
interviews right also I want to support
offline first so I want to be able to
like I'm gonna train on the plane
I need more flying I want to be able to
edit my document on my data structure
and I want it when I'm reconnected I
want the my changes to sync to all the
other peers in the seamless way I want
to get the way to connect message or I
want to be able to to worry about I'm
offline so I also want the system to
support different types of then I want
to edit text I want to edit may-maybe
god relevance encounters really simple
data structures or more complex like
maths or maps of maps of maps of arrays
and and enable this decentralized
applications to define data types that
can be synchronized between peers
complex data types so this is a very
vicious code right so first let's then
there's a there's Google Google Docs
implements something that addresses this
more lens which is called operational
transforms anyone heard of operational
transforms okay
so they don't feel all all the tips on
that list so it is centralized it
requires some centralization of
coordination so it's I'm not going to
explain that really thoroughly but it
has another set of the clients in order
to order the operations in the right way
so that everyone sees the same thing at
the end all right so this is
if other centralized and doesn't he
doesn't a lot for offline first uses
right so let's see how we can map this
on top of what way to describe IP
offense and actually I feel Lee is you
remember David the vid sorry shows some
grass so graphs are either play their
link there so there are notes that link
to other notes basically so you get is a
QB structure and any block chain or is a
not-guilty structure for instance so
let's see how we can match so we have
our document which is a block on my
device and the component effects has
catched as vivid 7 rights so let's say
that our edits this book and I create a
new version of the document but so since
they have changed has a new batch right
so this doesn't work because I have
different hashes I'm not able to
collaborate in any way because I'm
producing new data so they've been also
ended into what the solution for this
you have an end so be points to the head
of my heart if I edit document and I
create a new henge now somehow be points
to the new house right so I have a name
System DNS or IPs and now I point to the
inversion right so does this support
multiple writers because I want to
collaborate with other people right so I
want to collaborate so what does it mean
collaboration it means that multiple
people are writing so if Google Docs for
instance you are writing I'm writing let
this work so let's see if we have like
two actors let's start with where the
document is documents be be points to
current block b1 so this is the first
version of documents let's say that now
that actor creates a new version B -
right and it has a link to the parent
version this actor has a new version
already so they working concurrently and
separate they create this actor creates
a 3d and which also points to the parent
b1 but so what happens being either
points to b2 or b3 right so this doesn't
work because the buttons right so for us
first wins
but they're all in standby and what
happens so here comes charities which
are hopefully replicated data types the
big words then is that this is the fruit
of kind of recent research done by some
some very interesting academics like
Marcia period in Ferguson comes back I
know
let's leave the Seminole the initial
paper published in 2011 interestingly no
no police in El Vaquero are at least
working Portugal not sure if they're
Portuguese so but especially what's the
definition of insanity so it's a 70 is a
data structure which can be replicated
across multiple computers in the network
where the refugees can be able to live
independently and apparently without
coordination to fit the replica some
depth of special notes right and where
it is always mathematically possible to
solve conflicts right so this is kind of
what we want right the news so there are
many different types of charities as
charity is not something very concrete
it's just always a bunch of mathematical
rules right so there are different types
and make almost every day there's a new
type that the mathematic like a
researcher
finds or publishers so many times for
counter sets registers race and
Composition of all all of this and for
each one for his third race they're like
four or five different implementations
of arrays that obey samples and I'm
going to kind of show you right so let's
dive in a bit more into the strategy
language
I think is very promising so each note
holds the replica of the data right so
we're all operating I am a doctor but
you have your movement that someone else
has documents so we all have different
replicas of the same data set right the
1 0 2 3 each replica has their own
internal state okay and they all
communicate with each other using in a
synchronous network to exchange messages
between them okay so this replica part
is kind of leasing the the rest part
would be the network layer so what are
the network requirements for this to be
able to work what happens if I lose the
message for instance off if the message
is delivered first and then another one
what happens it depends on the type of
sanity there are two main types of
sanity's you have the convergent ones
and it's the conversion seventies which
have CP r DS is why the state is
broadcasted on every message so those
messages that you saw before contain the
entire state of the strategy for
instance if I'm sharing a Google Doc it
means that and the Google Doc is
represented using the CBI VT means that
I'm setting the document on every
message right so this allows you this
makes the decision property so it's
commutative which means that messages
can be swapped in order associative so
messages can be moved together in a form
another message and are important so we
fight really put the same message twice
it's ok right ok so it supports message
loss duplication and after water
delivery okay so we have but there are
other there's another type of strategy
which is
right so and this type of 70 each
operation generates a message that
describes the operation for instance if
I'm adding a character amending a
paragraph to the document i generate the
message to all the viewers that
describes them inserting this character
at this position for instance so this is
this is more fragile LED because it only
has the commutative property I can
change the order of the messages but I
cannot loose or duplicate messages okay
so which means that if I in CMR T's if I
have r1 created an operation and 21st
transmitting that operation to r2 and
the message is struggling through
network and then there's operation to
nethers operation 3 r1 is making some
changes and if the overlocked operation
is changed and they aren't assumed by r2
received by m2 and r2 of less the states
accordingly they both get the same state
they both converge okay now that's what
gets done because sometimes in C
markets you can have causal dependency
which is very simple thing so I had like
three operations but happens that
operations really depends on operation
one having had been received some
strategies have this built in I can
explain why but it's the city's
requirements for almost all complexities
because my face is fine removing
something this is a remove message means
that I must have had it before right for
instance so to solve there's some
similarities embed in the message cause
dependency those links between operation
3 in version 1 which makes it real
so you have to implemented a network
later all the SE a monetary like this in
a specific way because you only can
process you have to determine if that
message has already has a dependency and
incident legacy has already been
processed before you can process that
message so it makes it really hard so
what we need is to make this demand
right if you need to have a simple way
for people to be able to create
similarities that have caused dependency
in a very simple way okay so basically
we want generalizing this we have
operation one that we have a question to
that which depends on operation one that
my operation three which depends on the
previous operation operation - so okely
and half half and watching which is
already so it's replicate has their
operation mode right so now if the each
replicate gives ahead so a link into the
current the the heads you know ever do
you know gifts that you give raise your
hand if you have used it okay some
people happen so okay the operation one
has the cash rats and head points to the
current hash of the latest operation if
I add another operation what happens is
that I move heads into the next
operation and so forth if I have an
operation head so it's a permanent
permanent we broadcast there they have
content ID variable that are able to
transmit what is the current state and
then the other notes can retrieve
through a key FS can retrieve all the
missing operations right make sense yeah
so you can have like two replicas
communicating over network each one of
them has their own operation log which
is in this case linear so this has
operations for one or two country and
each one of the nose
pointed to their lettuce heads okay so
far people on us okay so what happens
with - confidence what each one of the
replicas creates their own operation
modes with different entries so amending
documents right I insert a character but
someone else r2 is also a certain
character so they're creating entries
here so what what how can we resolve
this so basically if I get a new
question from other modes and and I have
so backtracking are too great oppression
three right but I get operation for from
a remote node which links to the same
old operation basically I have to merge
those two operations right so I create a
new entry which is a merge entry which
doesn't want any data but links to both
operations now I've incorporated than
those two messages choose to oppressions
into my log and allow I have a new head
which I not broadcast into the network
again next sense so this is you could go
deeper into into this subject but
basically I've I did a proof of concept
implementation in java script that uses
a DFS which is pure charity and Bill's
charity ipfs which you can install with
using NPM can go to beat up a BFS GPR
splash pure strategy and check the
documentation it supports a bunch of
stuff like composing the name of
composition that's some building types
you can extend the time spec new types
you have sociology if you want to as
replication allows alone to do
replication without knowing what the
content is for instance because ipfs and
also as sonic encryption and
education there also there is a network
and story limitation for so this package
is like an abstract package right so
there will not be a specific package
that creates the store and network
layers for pr70 that would be others but
this is a specific for DFS and you can
also follow instructions here if you
want to create a personality using a DFS
should be straightforward
I find this is experimental so there may
be dragons but especially the deputy
first implementation is still very fresh
and also there's something we've been
working on which is called ear pad is is
like a pad that allows from multiple
users to plug recommending in one
document and using trees and ipfs
enemies so I thought I want you to check
it out
be your battlenet and try it and break
it and send some bug reports it's also
all open source and yeah it's all your
pad yes real are cryptids and
collaborative so all of the things that
I describes and yeah thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
any question yeah yeah
so for pearpad um let's see the rather
dice right now if I have here but then
saw and my pen has a good head so give
this out walk computer there than that
with each other and you start using
great like that I guess well it's really
been so pimp at what's on the browser
so whatever network you have available
on on your laptop if you're ready to
connect to your to your college okay
fine it works because the defense that
if they find both notes we will start
collaborating with each other okay so if
they're findable through the ffs network
with that you can alright so yes so I
will have to first and let me write the
FS Network before I pick it up to use
yeah first network is a set of laws so
it's not it's not something so choose an
Internet where you can make your own
private on your fast Network okay
alright so I guess my question would be
like I was less now connected to the the
big ipfs man mind goes down
would that like what I do it created
since that automated keep working on and
what I had with interconnection again
synchronizes my I have to know what the
IDF it's not that was disconnected with
any and sing yes yeah yeah chances of
our design for exactly that this case
for what people are offline and when
they are reconnected they this they
state sink okay so which means that
depth and without any conflicts but so
which means that if you were editing
different parts of the document versus
if it's purified for parts of the
documents should be fine but if you're
editing the same to same sentence
sentence for instance you will have some
someone will well you will have been
depending on the type that they're using
you know we have like voices of you
surgeons like five characters and your
friends or packages to see what that
character said but but but in whatever
order after you sing now I think you
sociality that are built for good
so because it's free right that says
there are some 70 types that handle
conflicts in that a lot muffins right so
basically you can have presence if there
is a multi-party register sex and
research with research people do a PA
Valley one and it said kick a volley to
if we started in concurrently and if I
get the value of of the key a against
one and two okay that's one time but all
the types 170 times one of us will win
like let this one last right so you can
have better laws that if you know what
help it was so there are many many
different types of strategies that have
different many many different properties
in terms of cost resolution there is no
no charity that was manual solution and
[Music]
it's just X and you would have I have
five types yes
yes because because Texas is the budget
is an array of characters right so
insert in the middle in certain
positions and in some resistors in the
position he wants that ready to grow
have those two assertions in the same
order or not replicas so the guarantee
is that they will convert so everyone
will get the same copy but in the series
of year of pear pad
yes so get the all insertions at the
same place in a specific order which is
kind of fun